feat: Add hosting page (#718)
discordjs/guide: guide/additional-info/hosting.md

# Hosting your bot on a VPS

> A bot requires itself to be hosted in order for it to run, however it would be unideal to host it on your PC all day without shutting it down. That's where a **Virtual Private Server**(VPS) comes into place. A good VPS can mark a turning point for your project as you can host local databases, and is reliable as well. A VPS suitable for your Discord Bot is typically cheap, ranging from around $2-10/month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A bot requires itself to be hosted in order for it to run, however, it would be unideal to host it on your computer all day without shutting it down. That's where a **Virtual Private Server**(VPS) comes into place. A good VPS can mark a turning point for your project as you can host local databases, and it is reliable as well. A VPS suitable for your Discord bot is typically cheap, ranging from around $2-10/month.
```

## Well known affordable providers

> We have gathered a small list of famous and inexpensive VPS providers who you may rely on for getting your job done:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have gathered a small list of reputable and inexpensive VPS providers that you may rely on for getting your job done:
```

* [OVH](https://www.ovh.com/us/vps/) - Starting at $3.35/month for 1 core, 2GB RAM, 20GB SSD
* [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/) - Starting at $5/month for 1 core, 1GB RAM, 25GB SSD
* [Linode](https://www.linode.com/) - Starting at $5/month for 1 core, 1GB RAM, 25GB SSD
* [Vultr](https://www.vultr.com/) - Starting at $2.50/month for 1 core, 512MB RAM, 10GB SSD
* [AWS Lightsail](https://amazonlightsail.com/) - Starting at $3.50/month (first month free) for 1 core, 512MB RAM, 20GB SSD

> Before you purchase a VPS, we recommend you learn how to remotely connect to a VPS. The usual method is via [SSH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell_Protocol). We won't go deep into it as its outside the scope of this guide, however VPS providers usually have a guide regarding connection so you can read up on that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you purchase a VPS, we recommend you learning how to remotely connect to a VPS. The usual method is via [SSH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell_Protocol). We won't go deep into it as it's outside the scope of this guide, however, VPS providers usually have a guide regarding connection so you can read up on that.
```

Author: > we recommend you learning

How about: `we recommend learning how to...`

Reviewer: Sure.

Reviewer 2: I see nothing grammatically incorrect with the original: "we recommend you learn how to"

Author: The original was `we recommend you learning how to...` which is grammatically incorrect. The comment was edited 👍🏼

## Steps to host

::: warning

> The following steps are stated guessing your Linux flavour is Ubuntu. However all Linux flavours are similar and should work on your VPS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps stated assumes your Linux distribution is Ubuntu. However, all Linux distributions are similar and should work on your VPS.
```

:::

> Ok, now you have purchased your own VPS, and you have remotely connected to it. What do you do now? We first recommend you create a Github repository and add your bot files there as it would be very ineffecient to code files through a terminal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ok, now you have purchased your own VPS, and you have remotely connected to it. What do you do now? We first recommend you to create a Github repository and add your bot files there as it would be very ineffecient to code files through a terminal.
```

### Installing Git and cloning repository

First, you need to install Git on the VPS, run the following command in the terminal to install it:

```bash
sudo apt-get -y install git
```

> Clone the repository by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterwards, clone the repository by running:
```

```bash
git clone <git-url>
```

### Installing NodeJS via NVM

> At the point of writing, the NodeJS library supported by Linux's `apt` repository only supports Version 10, however Discord.js v13 requires you to have Version 14+ in order to run your bot. To solve this issue, you need to install Node Version Manager which is a simple Bash script to manage multiple Node.js versions. Install NVM using Curl:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the time of writing, the Node.js library supported by Linux's `apt` repository only supports version 10, however, Discord.js v13 requires you to have version 14 or higher in order to run your bot. To solve this issue, you need to install Node Version Manager which is a simple Bash script to manage multiple Node.js versions. Install NVM using cURL:
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At the time of writing, the version of Node.js supported by Ubuntu's `apt` repository is only **version 10**; however, Discord.js v13 requires you to have Node.js **version 14** or newer in order to run your bot. To solve this issue, you need to install *Node Version Manager* (NVM) which is a simple program that lets you manage multiple Node.js versions. To install NVM, run:
```

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.33.0/install.sh | bash
```

> Then you can install the LTS version of Nodejs by doing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can install the LTS version of Node.js by doing:
```

```bash
nvm install --lts
```

::: tip

> If your Linux system doesn't have Curl, you can run `sudo apt-get install curl` to install it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Linux system doesn't have cURL, you can run `sudo apt-get install curl` to install it.
```

:::

### Final steps

Finally, `cd` into the directory which you have just cloned and run:

```bash
node <file-name>
```

> And thats it! You have officially hosted your Discord bot on a VPS. If you want to make changes, update your repository on Github and update the VPS's local clone by running `git pull`(inside the directory).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And thats it! You have officially hosted your Discord bot on a VPS. If you want to make changes, update your repository on Github and update the VPS's local clone by running `git pull` inside the directory.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Hosting your bot on a VPS

> A bot requires itself to be hosted in order for it to run, however, it would be unideal to host it on your computer all day without shutting it down. That's where a **Virtual Private Server**(VPS) comes into place. A good VPS can mark a turning point for your project as you can host local databases, and it is reliable as well. A VPS suitable for your Discord bot is typically cheap, ranging from around $2-10/month.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A bot requires itself to be hosted in order for it to run, however, it would not be ideal to host it on your computer all day without shutting it down. That's where a **Virtual Private Server** (VPS) comes into place. A good VPS can mark a turning point for your project as you can host local databases, and it is reliable as well. A VPS suitable for your Discord bot is typically cheap, ranging from around $2-10/month.
```

> A bot requires itself to be hosted in order for it to run, however, it would not be ideal to host it on your computer all day without shutting it down. That's where a **Virtual Private Server** (VPS) comes into place. A good VPS can mark a turning point for your project as you can host local databases, and it is reliable as well. A VPS suitable for your Discord bot is typically cheap, ranging from around $2-10/month.

Author: I'll have to skip on this as well, unless you change a bit less. I feel the original one is better:
> A bot needs to be run ("hosted") on a computer for it to run

I also attached a good wikipedia page about Virtual Private Server so no need to add more info

> A bot requires itself to be hosted in order for it to run, however, it would not be ideal to host it on your computer all day without shutting it down. That's where a **Virtual Private Server** (VPS) comes into place. A good VPS can mark a turning point for your project as you can host local databases, and it is reliable as well. A VPS suitable for your Discord bot is typically cheap, ranging from around $2-10/month.

Reviewer 3: Forgot to remove the "... for it to run" part, mb. What about the rest of the paragraph?

> A bot requires itself to be hosted in order for it to run, however, it would not be ideal to host it on your computer all day without shutting it down. That's where a **Virtual Private Server** (VPS) comes into place. A good VPS can mark a turning point for your project as you can host local databases, and it is reliable as well. A VPS suitable for your Discord bot is typically cheap, ranging from around $2-10/month.

Reviewer 5: > For a bot to be online at any time, you need to host it on a **Virtual Private Server** (VPS), rather than leaving it running locally on your computer. A good and reliable VPS can be a very important point in your project, as you can use it to host local databases. Generally the price of a VPS is cheap, around $2-10/month.

what about this?

## Well known affordable providers

We have gathered a small list of reputable and inexpensive VPS providers that you may rely on for getting your job done:
* [OVH](https://www.ovh.com/us/vps/) - Starting at $3.35/month for 1 core, 2GB RAM, 20GB SSD
* [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/) - Starting at $5/month for 1 core, 1GB RAM, 25GB SSD
* [Linode](https://www.linode.com/) - Starting at $5/month for 1 core, 1GB RAM, 25GB SSD
* [Vultr](https://www.vultr.com/) - Starting at $2.50/month for 1 core, 512MB RAM, 10GB SSD
* [AWS Lightsail](https://amazonlightsail.com/) - Starting at $3.50/month (first month free) for 1 core, 512MB RAM, 20GB SSD

> 

Author: I think I'll have to skip on that sorry. Haven't heard of it before and it would be good to keep it minimal to the *more* famous providers

> 

Reviewer 3: I've never heard of GalaxyGate before; what'd different about that?

> 

Reviewer 6: > I think I'll have to skip on that sorry. Haven't heard of it before and it would be good to keep it minimal to the _more_ famous providers

> I decided to add GalaxyGate to the list of VPSs, it offers good amount of resources starting at $3/month. Its used by Dank Memer as wel

This makes entirely no sense, Hetzner is not "famous" enough but GalaxyGate (started in 2018) is? Is the basis of "famous" entirely dependent on whether or not they host DankMemer or other popular Discord bots?

> Before you purchase a VPS, we recommend learning how to remotely connect to a VPS. The usual method is via [SSH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell_Protocol). We won't go deep into it as it's outside the scope of this guide, however, VPS providers usually have a guide regarding connection so you can read up on that.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Before you purchase a VPS, we recommend learning how to remotely connect to a VPS. The usual method is via [SSH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell_Protocol). We won't go deep into it as it is outside the scope of this guide, however, VPS providers usually have their own guides regarding connection available to customers.
```

Reviewer 8: Would probably use `connecting` instead of `connection`

## Steps to host

::: warning

> The following steps stated assumes your Linux distribution is Ubuntu. However, all Linux distributions are similar and should work on your VPS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following steps assume your VPS is using the Ubuntu Linux distribution. Most hosting providers will offer Ubuntu as an option; however, if your VPS doesn't have Ubuntu, you may need to change a few of the steps below (such as `apt-get`).
```

Author: Good idea, I'll keep it on hold for now, most likely will commit soon though

Reviewer 3: Why keep it on hold?

:::

> Ok, now you have purchased your own VPS, and you have remotely connected to it. What do you do now? We first recommend you to create a Github repository and add your bot files there as it would be very ineffecient to code files through a terminal.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Presuming that now you have purchased your own VPS and that you have remotely connected to it, what should you do now? We recommend you create a Github repository first and add your bot files there as it would be very inefficient to code files through a terminal.
```

> Presuming that now you have purchased your own VPS and that you have remotely connected to it, what should you do now? We recommend you create a Github repository first and add your bot files there as it would be very inefficient to code files through a terminal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you have purchased your VPS and remotely connected to it, what should you do now? We recommend you create a GitHub repository first and add your bot files there, as it would be very inefficient to code files through a terminal.
```

Reviewer 7: Will need to remove the Git Wikipedia page link below if this suggestion is applied
```suggestion
Once you have purchased a VPS and are remotely connected to it, the next step is to clone the bot's source code onto the server's file system. We recommend you store your bot's source code in a [GitHub](https://github.com) repository and use [Git](https://git-scm.com) to clone the files.
```

Author: Wouldnt need to add those extra hyper-links @lavgup.

Reviewer 3: Why not?

Reviewer 7: > Wouldnt need to add those extra hyper-links @lavgup. 

Sorry, saw this comment but forgot to leave a reply. I would think that these hyperlinks would be a necessary addition to the page as a convenient way for users to navigate to the linked website faster. They're the first time the products are mentioned in the page; they aren't "extra".

Also, hyperlinks aside, I believe the rewording would be beneficial overall as it is easier to read, more formal and less blog-like. The user knows exactly what they're going to do next and exactly what they will be using; it gets straight to the point.

### Installing Git and cloning repository

> First, you need to install Git on the VPS, run the following command in the terminal to install it:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, you need to install [Git](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) on the VPS. Run the following commands in the terminal to install it:
```

```bash

> sudo apt-get -y install git

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install git
```

Reviewer 3: Should make sure to update first.

```

> Afterwards, clone the repository by running:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once Git is installed, you can clone the repository by running:
```

```bash
git clone <git-url>
```

> ### Installing NodeJS via NVM

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
### Installing NodeJS via Node Version Manager (NVM) 
```

> At the point of writing, the NodeJS library supported by Linux's `apt` repository only supports Version 10, however Discord.js v13 requires you to have Version 14+ in order to run your bot. To solve this issue, you need to install Node Version Manager which is a simple Bash script to manage multiple Node.js versions. Install NVM using Curl:

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
At the time of writing, the version of Node.js supported by the `apt` repository only supports Version 10, however Discord.js v13 requires you to have Version 16.6 or higher in order to run your bot. To solve this issue, you need to install Node Version Manager which is a simple Bash script to manage multiple Node.js versions. Install NVM using Curl:
```

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.33.0/install.sh | bash
```

> Then you can install the LTS version of Node.js by doing:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then you can install the Long-Term Support (LTS) version of Node.js by doing:
```

```bash

> nvm install --lts

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
nvm install 16.6.0
```

Just while node v16 isn't considered LTS, the 2 month window is long enough to where this can be warranted in my opinion. When node v16 is considered LTS we can open a PR reverting it.

```

::: tip

> If your Linux system doesn't have cURL, you can run `sudo apt-get install curl` to install it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your Linux system doesn't have cURL (`Command 'curl' not found`), you can run `sudo apt-get install -y curl` to install it.
```

Author: The error will let them know it doesn't exist anyway

Reviewer 3: Yes, but a lot of people won't read the error message. If you put the text here, it will prompt them to read the actual error message.

:::

### Final steps

> Finally, `cd` into the directory which you have just cloned. Install the dependencies by running `npm install` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, `cd` into the directory which you have just cloned. Install the dependencies by running `npm install`.
```

> Finally, `cd` into the directory which you have just cloned. Install the dependencies by running `npm install`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finally, `cd` into the directory you have just cloned and install the dependencies by running `npm install`.
```

::: warning

> Keep in mind your VPS may not have native modules installed, which you might have required for your project(For example `make` or `build-essential`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind your VPS may not have the native modules installed, which you might have required for your project (for example, `make` or `build-essential`).
```

> Keep in mind your VPS may not have the native modules installed, which you might have required for your project (for example, `make` or `build-essential`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Keep in mind your VPS may not have the programs needed to install native modules; if you get an error from `"node-gyp"` when you run `npm install`, you may need to install such programs (`apt-get install -y build-essential make`).
```

Author: Again, I don't think it would be ideal to keep it very specific.

Reviewer 3: But the original sentence just doesn't make sense

Author: How does it not make sense?

Reviewer 3: 1. You're not missing the native modules, you're missing the build tools to build native modules.
2. "... which you might have required for your project" is a weak sentence.
3. It's unclear what you mean when you say "for example" and list the programs.

:::

Once you have installed the neccessary dependencies and modules, run:

```bash
node <file-name>
```

> And thats it! You have officially hosted your Discord bot on a VPS. If you want to make changes, update your repository on Github and update the VPS's local clone by running `git pull` inside the directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And that's it! You have officially hosted your Discord bot on a VPS. If you want to make changes, update your repository on GitHub and update the VPS's local copy by running `git pull` inside the directory.

If you want to keep your bot running without having SSH open all the time, try using [`screen`](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-screen-on-an-ubuntu-cloud-server).
```

Author: The guide has a page regarding PM2 which is specific to NodeJS already

Reviewer 3: Alright, and the other paragraph?

Author: `clone` is a better word instead of `copy` to be honest,  I will change the `that's it` part

# Hosting your bot on a VPS

A bot requires itself to be hosted in order for it to run, however, it would not be ideal to host it on your computer all day without shutting it down. That's where a **Virtual Private Server** (VPS) comes into place. A good VPS can mark a turning point for your project as you can host local databases, and it is reliable as well. A VPS suitable for your Discord bot is typically cheap, ranging from around $2-10/month.

## Well-known affordable hosting providers

We have gathered a small list of reputable and inexpensive VPS providers that you may rely on for getting your job done:
* [OVH](https://www.ovh.com/us/vps/) - Starting at $3.35/month for 1 core, 2GB RAM and 20GB SSD
* [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/) - Starting at $5/month for 1 core, 1GB RAM and 25GB SSD
* [Linode](https://www.linode.com/) - Starting at $5/month for 1 core, 1GB RAM and 25GB SSD
* [Vultr](https://www.vultr.com/) - Starting at $2.50/month for 1 core, 512MB RAM and 10GB SSD
* [AWS Lightsail](https://amazonlightsail.com/) - Starting at $3.50/month (first month free) for 1 core, 512MB RAM and 20GB SSD

> * [GalaxyGate](https://galaxygate.net/hosting/vps/) - Starting at $3/month for 1core, 1 GB RAM and 15GB SSD

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
```
Let's stick with just the first five providers that are also listed in the #resources channel on the discord.js server
